The day began and did not end. Our last day in New York, our first day homeless, passed like any other day with friends and food. I called friends, climbed with them, played games with them. Rarely do I see these friends more than once a month but this last day, the first of a two month break, felt like a real goodbye. Their puppy, a rescue from South Korea, had finally overcome her hesitation with us, although a sudden move would have her skittering back behind our friends' legs. Their entryway was lined with instant film photos celebrating their new life in New York, the life that extended past the first year in a way that ours did not. Our picture was slightly off-center, taken with a poorly designed camera, its viewfinder too off-center from its lens. We signed it with a flourish and left. 

And so we found ourselves at the airport in New York, then the one in Iceland, then the one in Amsterdam. At each step, a swarm of nearly one hundred Dutch high schoolers swirled around us. There was no rest on the flights either -- they had the resilience of the young and the exuberance from a trip well-traveled. We would land at an airport, run to the bathroom before the supervisor's headcount finished and claim a table as far from their raucousness as possible. 

Our last stop, the Amsterdam Schiphol Airport opens into a cavernous train station. The two spaces are separated by a yellow band on the floor, dotted with small card-tapping stations. "Only ticketed passengers beyond this line," one sign read. There were no gates, no barriers of any sort, just that sign and the weight of the social contract. It's possible that the Amsterdam designers of old regretted this decision, that each year some administrator calculates the total revenue lost from relying on an honor system. It's possible that only the most delinquent, misguided children would violate this silent agreement. But even if the state were bankrupt, even if crimes are reinforceable, the illusion of free choice can be comforting. It's peaceful here, that unenforced strip of paint tells me. You don't need to worry about petty crimes; we are above all that. 

This utopia continues as the train teleports us to Amsterdam Zuid. Getting on and off the train is a five-person ordeal: three other bystanders help us with our two suitcases and two backpacks as we attempt to manoeuver through the narrow aisle. People here seem only too happy to help a pair of clumsy Americans. As we step out of the station, I feel like I've walked into an advertisement for Smart Cities of 2050. A pink-haired punk girl swirls around a lamppost in the drizzle. Glass half-domes shelter escalators descending into the ground; these domes are sheltered themselves by two rows of summer-lush trees. We walk across the paved stone street, up the stairs under an awning made from an LGBTQ+ flag. An electric streetcar whirs past us, splitting a two-lane road down the middle. Even the buses here are nearly silent, and certaintly don't exude any of that nasty smoke. I still can't shake the feeling that we are just characters under an artist's pen; everything's so perfect. I'm proven wrong a few minutes later: a transit system as beautiful as this still can't run on time. 

A few sharp turns later, we make it off the bus, scuttle into the Airbnb, and collapse on the daybed made for us. From the quiet roads to the homey markets, Amsterdam is so far all that it's promised to be. 